1.Introduction Part One 
2.Introduction Part Two



1.Introduction Part One  :
**************************
PL SQL Stands For Procedural Language using SQL.
SQL is a structured query language.
Procedure is nothing but a program and Using PL/SQL We Develop the Database Programs.
For Example I want to purchase a mobile Either through on line or Outlet.
Employee Within the Outlet will enter the product details as well as Customer Details in the company web page.
Product and Customer information will be saved in the Back end database server.
Remember in the Back End Database whatever the information Retailer has written on the web page that will be saved.
Advantage of Saving The Details is in future if User needs any assistance from the business,
User will get that Details about related to product who
aren t is your product damaged any kind
of issues are there then in future they
will identify you according to the
already saved information first point
next one next one is yes I want to
purchase a mobile in online how can I
purchase yes simply I can type the URL
address of business it opens a web page
in the web page I will find out my
product and then I will select the
product next step is I need to make the
payment and finally after some duration
I will get the product here also once
you enter your details selected the
particular information
the details are saved under back-end
database server okay who is taking that
data in the backend database server and
the business outlet employee is giving
the information as a customer in online
purchase you are submitting some
information in both the cases the
information of you and the other
selected product both will be saved
under back-end database server who is
the person who is taking your data in
the backend database server yes there is
a program there is a pl/sql programs
that were developed according to
business requirement that were developed
by developers according to PLC here
according to customer requirements or
client requirements and they are
permanently available from database
server in the front end web page
whatever you are doing the back end
response you are getting from database
server okay about product information or
registration of the customer or any
warranty details or seller details or
business details any kind of information
is provided to you from back-end
database server who is there who is the
person providing all these things or who
is the person receiving data into him
that person is called as a programs
pl/sql procedures they are already
stored in the database server what is
the responsibility of PL sequel objects
PL sequel objects responsibility is if
you make some action in the web page the
respect to result will be coming from
back-end database server remember this
okay
now coming into the technical point of
view what is PL sequel PL SQL is known
as procedural language in the procedures
you are also using SQL queries so PL
sequel is a collection of programming
statements plus SQL queries yeah pl/sql
is a collection of programming
statements plus SQL queries
okay then generally what is pl/sql is we
can write like this pl/sql is an
extension pl/sql is an extension to SQL
part it is an advanced departmental SQL
part why it is advanced and suppose in
SQL if I write a query SQL query I am
getting data from the database okay fine
every day I want to get same kind of
information every day I want to get same
kind of information then every day we
need to write the queries okay so as a
technical developer you are able to
write the query but as a client he isn't
he don't know what is what I kill so but
he need the information about one item
how he will get you should provide that
using programs means see SQL queries are
saved in the form of programs inside
programs remember that
SQL queries are written in the programs
and the programs are saved inside
database and these programs are linked
up with front-end web page options
front-end web page options if you click
on front-end button then respect to
action is coming from database server
okay now you are unable to perform some
kind of things in SQL some kind of
actions you are unable to perform in SQL
what are they what are the things I am
unable to do in SQL and what are the
advantages of pl/sql see let me check
out
see a Titan how many number of queries
you can execute at a time only one query
is executed at a time only one query is
executed in SQL this is one point and
next one each execution hit database
engine each query hits database if
number of hits are increasing if number
of hits are increasing then database
performance will be decreasing okay next
time queries are not saved queries are
not saved in database you are not saving
the queries so you have to rewrite the
curry's according to your requirement we
need to rewrite queries again and again
again and again this is the problem okay
so but I don't want to rewrite the
quarry's again and again every day I
want to perform some tasks so so every
day I don't want to write the query
every day I don't want to write the
query instead of that if I save the
query in database in future if I need
that if I want to do the same process
just I will execute the query how can I
execute the query how can I save the
query in the database in the database
you can save the query in the form of
pl/sql object pl/sql object and in SQL
there are no programming statements
there is no programming constructs
programming constructs like
conditional statements are not there
loops are not existed and branching
statements are not there these are all
the problems branching statements are
not existed in SQL not existed these
concepts are not available in SQL okay
so all these facilities are available in
pl/sql what is this simply I will write
one more point here PL sequel is used to
automate business activities used to
automate your business activities
automate business activities remember
this
what is automating simple these concepts
in SQL you are not able to perform these
things that things will be provided by
PL Sigma if you do something in the
front-end web page then respect to
response is coming from database
programs remember from the database
server and furthermore from the database
server what is the database server it's
a collection of programs data and
programs
remember the programs will be responded
and they can be existed they can be
executed on the database tables and you
are getting the information in the front
end web page this is what happening in
pl/sql now how can i define PL sequel
what is the definition of SQL SQL is a
collection of predefined objects tables
views indexes and it moreover it's a
language so language is a collection of
something alphabets or their statement
constructs are their syntactical rules
grammatical rules are there similarly
SQL is a collection of predefined
objects like tables views
sequence of synonyms indexes clusters
whereas pl/sql is a collection of
predefined no sorry pl/sql is a
collection of user-defined objects it is
a collection of user-defined objects
remember user-defined objects so
according to user requirements the
objects will be designed and developed
according to user requirement the
objects will be designed and a developer
user requirement means according to
client requirement let us see so now
what are the advantages of pl/sql yes we
have some set of advantages are there so
every day you are you want to perform a
task or otherwise let us see I went to
one ATM swipe my card I make some with
the toil so whenever I make the
withdrawal immediately my balance from
my balance the amount will be deducted
detected and finally it is displaying
some after birth with royal what was the
total amount right who is making this
process who is updating my balance in
the database server yes there is a
pl/sql program there is a pl signal
program inside the database okay so
that's why your business activities are
automated by using pl/sql objects first
point you can execute to multiple
queries you can execute to multiple
queries yes see executing multiple
queries
multiple queries so in the form of
programs in the form of programs
remember this next reduces number of
hits reduces number of hits to the
database engine to database and it
reduces number of hits means
automatically improve database
performance database performance and
also it is improving network performance
also how it is improving network
performance network performance is
improved if there is a less usage of
network lines less usage of Network
lines means each query using one network
line you are executing 100 worries then
hundred lines it is used it is using 100
number of network lines or 100 number of
times the same line will be used instead
of that if you place all row furry's
inside a program and you are executing
the program the program with any number
of statements don't worry about how many
number of queries in the program so the
program will use only one what network
line so instead of using 100 number of
network lines just it is using one
network line next the major advantages
here I'm highlighting
enhance ability
and reusability and final one modularity
what is enhance ability enhance ability
means suppose you have developed at one
program according to today's requirement
in future I need old requirement
I want old process and also a new
process then no need to develop the
program complete program just use the
old program and just change the logic
existing logic I am changing to support
new requirement then what is happening
it will perform older tasks as well as
new tasks means existing programs are
enhance ability quirements that is
called as enhance ability making changes
to the older no scissors reusability you
have created one procedure you can read
you can execute it any number of times
let us see suppose one banking business
is there so when if you want to check
your balance you are clicking on balance
you are just you're touching balance
option whenever you are touching balance
option immediately it is getting the
balance so to get the balance there is a
procedure or there is a function one PL
sequel object is there so what is the
responsibility of that program or
procedure or function so the object is
taking account number from you or cod
number from you so using the cod number
it is getting the balance from your
account okay fine so only you are only
one person who is seeking the balance
like you so many people are there
thousands of people even hundred
thousands of people will check the
balance at the same time for each one
there is only one program the
responsibility of the object is taking
the cod number or account number and get
the balance and display to the client
okay
so means you can reuse it any number of
reusability any number of users and any
number of times
what is modularity modularity suppose if
you have a complicated task so you are
unable to perform it at a time then
simply divide it into subtasks simply
divide it into subtasks and if you feel
sub task is also so complicated if it is
having more number of functionalities
again divided into further subtasks so
you need to divide you need to continue
this dividing process until each a sub
task is very simple then develop a
program for each sub task that is called
as modularity this is known as the
dividing process is called as modular
additional criteria remember yeah these
are the advantages of pl/sql so whatever
the things you are unable to perform in
SQL or through SQL that thinks you can
perform by using pl/sql and you can save
the SQL queries in the form of PL sequel
objects inside the database server now
so what are pl/sql objects pl/sql
objects yeah let me write PL sequel
objects what are they
so generally we have PL sequel objects
are divided into no categories there are
two categories remember what are they
one is programs programs are also called
as anonymous blocks anonymous blocks and
another one is procedures procedures and
somebody can say functions procedures
and functions these two are called as
sub programs okay so reminding
everything is programming constructs
like arrays cursors okay
arrays cursors all these things types
yeah now what are the general categories
here creating it under this category you
are also having trigger packages
types okay so these are called as real
signal objects now first let me discuss
about programs programs again divided
into two types programs divided into two
types okay what is the first one what is
the second one here
static programs static and second one
dynamic programs static moguls and
dynamic programs what is a static
program what is dynamic see if a program
accepting runtime input values if a
program accepting runtime input values
it is called as a dynamic if it is not
accepting then it is called as a static
static programs will not accept a
runtime input values dynamic programs
will accept runtime input values this is
what about programs before going to
discuss about types of programs let me
discuss about what is the structure of
pl/sql program what is the structure of
pl/sql program



2.Introduction Part Two :
*************************
they program how can i define it it is a
collection of statements to perform user
required tasks it is a collection of
statements programming statements and
queries it is a collection of statements
programming statements and queries to
perform to perform set of tasks are a
single task that depends on client
requirement yeah then what is the nature
of program program should not save it in
the database program not save it in the
database remember that not save it in
database programs are always temporary
okay yeah now let me discuss about
structure of any pl/sql program what is
the structure
here the structure starting from declare
keyword declare and you are having some
statements next begin block then here
what you are having assignment
statements data processing statements
data processing in the sense quarries
and last one output statements and
finally exception block
exception block it contains error
handling statements error handling
statements and the program is closed
with and the program is terminated with
end keyword here what is each and every
one responsibility I will explain just
see declare it is optional if you want
to declare variables then only use
declare block otherwise you can skip
begin its mandatory compulsory it's
mandatory
remember exception block if you want to
handle errors use exception block
otherwise don't use exception block so
this is also optional end keyword it's
compulsory it's mandatory so program in
the sense there should be at least begin
and end program in the sense there
should be at least begin and end without
begin and end there is no program at all
remember dates now let me discuss about
what is this each and every block
what is the use of each and every block
let us see
so let me explain about declare block
declare block
what is the use of declare block declare
block contains declaration statements
what it contains declaration statements
declaration statements what is the
meaning of declaration statement see I
am writing a program to perform a task
to perform the task I need two values I
need two values the values should be
saved under program the values first of
all should be saved under program and in
the program processing I will perform
the action means I will perform some
process I will apply some calculations
on the values so finally I will display
the result this is the target of my
program what is my aim of the program
the program is using two values and on
these values I will apply some
calculations and finally I will display
the result this is the target of your
program so to reach the target of the
program we need two values first so the
values whatever the values you are going
to use in the program the values should
be saved under variables the values
should be saved under variables so what
is a variable it is a name under that
name you are saving some value so values
we need variables you are saying to
store the programmers so under variable
we need a memory space each variable
need a memory space how much memory it
needs are you storing character value or
take value or some other number type
value what type of value you want to
store how much memory you need
see so generally variable name and here
data type and size of the data type
whatever the data types we have
discussed in SQL part same data types
you can use see this is the syntax of
declaration statement what is this this
is a variable name what is your variable
name variable name is acts as a
reference to your value you are storing
one value in the temporary memory area
in the program area right so in the
program area means it is a memory space
so how can I take the value from the
memory by using a reference that
reference name is nothing but variable
the reference name is nothing but
variable so first you need to declare a
variable if you declare a variable it
will get memory space into that memory
space you can store value which is
called as declaring a variable remember
now what is the example for this so X
yes integer type of variable next one
variable E name I want to store worker
to type of value its worker 2 of 10 so
for this variable how much memory
required to store integer that much
memory assigned it to X into this
variable it will assign a memory which
is able to store 10 character length
string type value 10 character length
character data type value ok now this
variable is getting some memory space
and this variable is also getting some
memory space ok now next block
what is the use of declare its block to
declare variables next block begin block
under begin block you are having three
types of statements first one assignment
statements what is assignment assignment
statements assignment statements used to
store value in the variable assignment
statements or user to store value in
variable
what is the use it is used to store
value in variable remember so storing
value in your variable again two methods
are there storing value in your variable
having two methods what are they so the
two methods are like this by using
assignment operator this is called as
assignment operator and by using select
query with into keyword select query
with into keyword remember that okay
yeah now see actually we need to specify
like this select some kind of columns
into some kind of variables remember
this two methods of saving values in two
variables what is the syntax by using
assignment operator the syntax by using
assignment operator is like this
variable name assignment operator and
after that value or expression or
expression you can also write a function
calling statement procedure calling
statement anything no issues you can
also write function calling statement
also okay now what is the example for
this see X already declared a variable 7
6 5 4 what it is 7 6 5 4 so it is an
integer value that is save attender
X so into this location what is the
value it will store 7 6 5 4 remember
next how can I store a value by using
select query say select what is the use
of select select command is selecting
value or values or records from the
tables you are writing select query in
the program ok select query is taking
some value from table and the value is
coming into program so if you have or if
you want to use any values within the
program definitely we have to save it
inside a variable so select is coming
excellent is taking a value from the
table the value is coming into the
program so inside the program you must
save that value in a variable remember
now what is the example for this
so let me write select I am selecting
the value from a name column and that
should be saved into ve name what is the
variable V a name ok from would stable
you are taking from EMP what is the
condition here where employee number is
equal to X employee number is equal to X
what is the value of X already saver
here 7 6 5 4 so where class is checking
the condition if employee number is
equal to 7 6 5 4
then from the match record select is
selecting employee name that name is
saved into variable E name that name is
saved into variable a name now you have
two values in your program one is X
you and one value is a saber tender ve
name now what is the next type of
statement under begin block say data
processing statements what is your data
processing statement so data processing
statement in the sense any SQL query
data processing statement in the sense
any SQL query you are using in the
program is called as data processing
statement and the next one what is the
next type of statement under begin block
here output statements output statement
so what is meant by output statement
output statement is used to display
output from the program yeah
user to display output from the program
user to display output from program or
procedure remember this okay so is there
any output functions yes to display
output from the program were actually is
providing one predefined function
vertical is providing one predefined
function okay so that is called as DBMS
underscore output dot put underscore
line DBMS underscore output dot put
underscore line here you can display a
direct message or you can also use a
variable name so here if it is a normal
message then you should put it in single
quotes if it is a
variablename don't put it in single
quotes if it is a normal message put it
in single quotes if it is a variable
name
don't enclose it in single quotes okay
yeah so output statements are useful to
display output from the program okay to
display the output we have a predefined
function is there what I kill is
providing predefined function what is
the function name DBMS underscore output
dot put underscore line so here it is
useful to display normal messages and
also values of variables it is useful to
display normal messages and also values
of variables okay what is the example
let us assume bbm s underscore output
dot put underscore line put underscore
line okay
Here I am writing EMP ID in the next
line same function EMP ID I have saved
under X it will display value of x in
the first line it will display EMP ID in
the next line it will display X value
means seven six five four in the next
slide here name of employee name of a
and P in the next line I will display
the name of the employee V underscore a
name V underscore a name then in the
last line you will get whatever the
value selected from the table and that
is the same would enter ve name that
value will be displayed here so this is
about a begin block now let me discuss
about exception block is exception
for the time being I am saying exception
is exception block is used to write
error handling statements error handling
statements so it is a big topic not a
simple one so we need to discuss a huge
information about exception so for the
time being just I am saying introducing
what is exception exception is nothing
but error in your program or in your
procedure if you have a problem okay if
you have a problem then by default error
information generated by Oracle engine
that information at some times you are
unable to understand if you want to
display user friendly messages instead
of technical error information I want to
display user friendly information to the
client exact fetch returns more than
requested number of rows how many people
will understand this the client can re
is unable to understand it
instead of that getting data from
multiple records so use explicit cursor
if I display like that that should be a
developer friendly suppose client
friendly how can I post a message to the
client invalid employee ID or otherwise
duplicate employee ID so anybody can
easily understand ok employee ID
duplicated customer ID duplicated
already existed customer ID is there so
use different customer ID so if you
display these kind of user friendly
messages the client can easily
understand it so to display such kind of
user friendly error messages we will use
exception block and last one end keyword
what is ended end keyword represents end
of the program
it is the termination point of program
remember
okay once I finish the writing of
program once I finish the writing of the
program how can I execute it yeah in
case of SQL queries or in case of
programs before execution of a query or
program first query or program should be
compiled so how can I compile it compile
the program and how to execute it it
should be done by using slash just a
moment I will tell you so any program
how can I compile and execute it compile
and execute it so at your SQL prompt you
are starting the program from declare
assume that you have completed all the
statements at the end in the new line
just type in the keyword semicolon
coming to new line in the new line use
slash use slash and hit enter
automatically the program will be
compiled and executed and one more point
you need to remember once the program
compiled and executed no errors are
there but still you are not getting any
output from the program but it is
showing a message PL sequel procedure
successfully completed PL sequel
procedure successfully completed
you are getting this message but you are
not getting output while yes C sequel
developer like SQL Star Plus window
anywhere any database client tool sequel
Star Plus window sequel developer PL
sequel developer told any kind of tool
by default the tool is able to display
output from the query execution again by
default the tool is enabled to display
output from SQL query execution output
but the programs or any PL sequel object
is unable to display output from the
programs okay
the tool is not enabled to display
output from the programmer procedure in
such cases in your current user login
session or once you connected to
database in that session use this
command once set server output on
set server out put on what is this sec
server output on it will enable the
respective tool or it will enable the
client tool to display output from the
program to display output from the
program okay this is the overall
explanation of PL sequel programs and in
the next video you can see what is a
static program
what is a dynamic program before that
let me finish the hands-on part related
to this one
you


